OADP 1.2.0 release notes (#61156)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oadp-release-notes-1-2-0.adoc

* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2047[OADP-2047]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1932[OADP-1932]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1844[OADP-1844]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1182[OADP-1182]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1183[OADP-1183]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1798[OADP-1798]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1726[OADP-1726]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-821[OADP-821]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1833[OADP-1781]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-697[OADP-697]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1281[OADP-1281]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1077[OADP-1077]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1076[OADP-1076]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1670[OADP-1670]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1307[OADP-1307]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1640[OADP-1640]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1987[OADP-1987]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1934[OADP-1934]

[id="known-issues-1-2-0_{context}"]
== Known issues

This release has the following known issues:

> * Data Mover backups over `cephFS` (ODF 4.12) fails with "Asynchronous action timed out". link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1933[OADP-1933]

Reviewer: @HagayVider1 - you cannot write a known issues section for release notes without reading the ticket.
There is a nice little line in it, that gives a useable section: 

OADP 1.2.x no longer requires VolSync's privledged movers and can cause errors. A user could see a failed backup that timed out with the following errors:

```
Error: container's runAsUser breaks non-root policy 
Error from server (BadRequest): container "restic" in pod "volsync-src-vsb-xxxyyy" is waiting to start: CreateContainerConfigError
```

Reviewer: Then we could add something else reworked from the Q&A:

By default, OADP uses the Pod/Workloads security context to backup data using Volsync/datamover.  Also by default, `dpa.spec.features.dataMover.volumeOptions.sourceVolumeOptions.moverSecurityContext` is set to `true`.

Issue the following command to ensure the annotation is set to `false`:
```
oc annotate --overwrite namespace/openshift-adp volsync.backube/privileged-movers='false'
```

> [!NOTE]
>
>  In some more advanced use case where you may want and need root escalation of privileges the option to use the annotation and setting `moverSecurityContext` to false.

Reviewer 2: afaiu/r  moverSecurityContext defaults to false,
maybe double-check?

Reviewer 2: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1941?jql=text%20~%20%22moverSecurityContext%22

Author: > Then we could add something else reworked from the Q&A:
> 
> By default, OADP uses the Pod/Workloads security context to backup data using Volsync/datamover. Also by default, `dpa.spec.features.dataMover.volumeOptions.sourceVolumeOptions.moverSecurityContext` is set to `true`.
> 
> Issue the following command to ensure the annotation is set to `false`:
> 
> ```
> oc annotate --overwrite namespace/openshift-adp volsync.backube/privileged-movers='false'
> ```
> 
> > [!NOTE]
> > In some more advanced use case where you may want and need root escalation of privileges the option to use the annotation and setting `moverSecurityContext` to false.

Should I add this to Known issue OADP-1933?

Reviewer 3: Folks @anarnold97 for 1.2.0 `oc annotate --overwrite namespace/openshift-adp volsync.backube/privileged-movers='false'`   is no longer required.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/oadp-release-notes.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="migration-oadp-release-notes-1-2-0_{context}"]
= OADP 1.2.0 release notes

> The OADP 1.2.0 release notes include new features and lists of fixed bugs and known issues.

Reviewer 4: I think we can simplify it to say:
```
The OADP 1.2.0 release notes include information about new features, bug fixes, and known issues.
```

> The OADP 1.2.0 release notes include new features and lists of fixed bugs and known issues.

Reviewer: Thanks Gaurav

[id="new-features_{context}"]
== New features

.Resource timeouts

> The new `resourceTimeout` option specifies how many minutes to wait for several Velero resources before timeout. This applies for such resources as Velero CRD availability, `volumeSnapshot` deletion, and backup repository availablity. 10 minutes is the default setting.

Reviewer: **availability** -->> **availability**

> The new `resourceTimeout` option specifies how many minutes to wait for several Velero resources before timeout. This applies for such resources as Velero CRD availability, `volumeSnapshot` deletion, and backup repository availablity. 10 minutes is the default setting.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The new `resourceTimeout` option specifies how many minutes to wait for several Velero resources before timeout. This option applies to resources such as Velero CRD availability, `volumeSnapshot` deletion, and backup repository availability. Ten minutes is the default setting.
```

- use words if a number occurs at the beginning of a sentence. IBM Styleguide
- `This` was unclear. Use `This option applies ...` or `It applies ...`

Reviewer 5: Just one additional nit here. The first sentence sounds a bit incomplete to me. My suggestion (including Gaurav's suggestion above):

```suggestion
The new `resourceTimeout` option specifies the timeout duration in minutes for waiting on various Velero resources. This option applies to resources such as Velero CRD availability, `volumeSnapshot` deletion, and backup repository availability. The default duration is ten minutes.
```

> .AWS S3 compatible backup storage providers

Reviewer: Not sure this is a new feature.

Reviewer: Let us leave it in, I think... but it is your call

You can back up objects and snapshots on AWS S3 compatible providers.

[id="new-features-tech-preview-1-2-0_{context}"]
=== Technical preview features

.Data Mover

> The OADP Data Mover enables customers to back up Container Storage Interface (CSI) volume snapshots to a remote object store. When Data Mover is enabled, you can restore stateful applications, using CSI volume snapshots pulled from the object store if a failure, accidental deletion, or corruption of the cluster occurs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The OADP Data Mover enables you to back up Container Storage Interface (CSI) volume snapshots to a remote object store. When Data Mover is enabled, you can restore stateful applications using CSI volume snapshots pulled from the object store if a cluster fails, accidental deletion, or corruption occurs.
```

> 

Reviewer: @HagayVider1 - do you think we should have links to the documentation of the new feature? what do you think?

Author: I think we should include links for every new feature. Can you please point me in the direction where these features are documented? Tickets, PRs?

* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1932[OADP-1932]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1844[OADP-1844]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1182[OADP-1182]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1183[OADP-1183]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1798[OADP-1798]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1726[OADP-1726]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-821[OADP-821]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1833[OADP-1781]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-697[OADP-697]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1281[OADP-1281]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1077[OADP-1077]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1076[OADP-1076]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1670[OADP-1670]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1307[OADP-1307]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1640[OADP-1640]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1987[OADP-1987]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1934[OADP-1934]

[id="known-issues-1-2-0_{context}"]
== Known issues

This release has the following known issues:

.Data Mover backups over `cephFS` (ODF 4.12) fails.

> OADP 1.2.x no longer requires VolSync's privledged movers and can cause errors.

Reviewer: **privledged** -->> **privileged**

The following errors indicate a failed backup that timed out: `Error: container's runAsUser breaks non-root policy`, and `Error from server (BadRequest): container "restic" in pod "volsync-src-vsb-xxxyyy" is waiting to start: CreateContainerConfigError`.

> By default, OADP uses POD/Workloads security context to backup data using Volsync/Data Mover. Also by default, `dpa.spec.features.dataMover.volumeOptions.sourceVolumeOptions.moverSecurityContext` is set to `true`.

Reviewer: Lose this line? What do you think?

> By default, OADP uses POD/Workloads security context to backup data using Volsync/Data Mover. Also by default, `dpa.spec.features.dataMover.volumeOptions.sourceVolumeOptions.moverSecurityContext` is set to `true`.

Reviewer 4: missing `,`
```suggestion
By default, OADP uses POD/Workloads security context to backup data using Volsync/Data Mover. Also, by default, `dpa.spec.features.dataMover.volumeOptions.sourceVolumeOptions.moverSecurityContext` is set to `true`.
```

> .link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1933[Data Mover backups over CephFS (ODF 4.12) fails]

Reviewer: @weshayutin - please can I confirm if it is ok to remove, as according to QE: "In 'Stage' version the datamover configuration for CephFS was changed. 'Stage' move the configuration  from the 'DPA' to 'openshift-adp namespace' So no need to do anything - namespace configuration done by OADP deployment"
